The Battle of Stalingrad




The Battle of Stalingrad


The Battle of Stalingrad was one of the biggest battles in World War II and it happened in Russia. It was between Germany and the Soviet Union and it was really important because a lot of people died. The battle started in August 1942 and ended in February 1943. It took place in the city of Stalingrad, which is now called Volgograd. Many people think it was the turning point of the war in Europe.


Hitler wanted to capture Stalingrad because it was an important city. It was a major industrial center and it sat on the Volga River, which was important for transportation. Also, the city was named after the Soviet leader Joseph Stalin, so capturing it would have been a big propaganda victory for Germany. The German 6th Army, led by General Friedrich Paulus, attacked the city. The Soviets defended it very hard and there was intense fighting in the streets. The battle was fought building by building, which is called urban warfare.


A lot of people died in the battle. The German army got stuck in the city and couldn't take it over completely. Then in November 1942, the Soviets launched a counterattack called Operation Uranus. They attacked the sides of the German army, which were being defended by weaker Romanian and Italian troops. The Soviets surrounded the German 6th Army and trapped them inside the city. Hitler told Paulus not to retreat even though the soldiers were running out of food and supplies. A German attempt to break through to the trapped army, called Operation Winter Storm, failed. Eventually, in February 1943, Paulus surrendered.


The battle was really bloody. About 2 million people were killed, wounded, or captured total, which included soldiers and civilians. After Stalingrad, the Germans started losing the war and kept retreating all the way back to Berlin. The Soviet Union was able to push the Germans back after this battle.


In conclusion, the Battle of Stalingrad was a very important battle in World War II. It was very bloody and a lot of people died. It changed the course of the war and the Germans started losing after that. It was one of the most important events of the 20th century.